Title: Warning UK car industry under threat without help
Text: The UK's car sector could disappear unless the government follows the US and EU in helping with the switch to electric, an industry veteran says.

It was "probable" car firms would leave the UK without a huge subsidy package similar to the billions in support the US is providing, Andy Palmer said.

The sector is facing the "last throw of the dice", Mr Palmer added, who has had senior jobs at Nissan and Aston Martin.

The chancellor has said the UK will not go "toe-to-toe" with the US and EU.

Jeremy Hunt told the Times newspaper that the UK's approach to attract investment would be "better".

Mr Palmer is now chairman of electric battery firm InoBat, but has previously worked as chief operating officer at Nissan and is a former chief executive of Aston Martin.

He told the BBC's Today programme that the UK was "managing decline" in its car-making industry, but had a "last opportunity" to boost the sector and jobs in the move to electric vehicles.

However, he warned huge subsidy packages were needed for UK-based companies, similar to such schemes announced in the US and being consulted on currently by the EU.

If such schemes are not created, Mr Palmer said, it was "not only possible, it's probable" that car manufacturers currently based in the UK would leave and go elsewhere.

"You are into a period of either you compete... or you manage the decline of the British industry down to fundamentally next to zero," he said.

"We have the last throw of the dice in order to bring back some part of that industry, if we don't then we have to look for alternative employments for the 820,000 people."

New UK plan to reach net zero goal faces criticism
Five questions about electric vehicles answered
The warning comes after the US announced the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA), which offers billions of dollars in subsidies and tax credits to US businesses producing greener technologies, including electric vehicles, renewable electricity and sustainable aviation fuel.

The EU has responded with plans for a Net Zero Industry Act to increase its subsidies for green industry.

The UK government told the BBC officials were engaging with the US administration "to address serious concerns" about the IRA, as well as talking to other countries across the world "who are similarly affected".

The government said it would "continue to robustly defend the interests of UK industry".

The latest comments come after Mr Hunt said the UK would not go toe-to-toe with its allies and get involved what he called "some distortive global subsidy race".

"Our approach will be different - and better," Mr Hunt said. "With the threat of protectionism creeping its way back into the world economy, the long-term solution is not subsidy but security."